---
layout: '../../layouts/MarkdownPost.astro'
title: '15-445 Intro to Database Systems Project 2 Summary'
pubDate: 2023-03-14
description: '在写15-445的过程中遇到了很多问题，在此记录一下'
author: 'Aaron'
cover:
    url: '/preview/ANdy.jpg'
    alt: 'cover'
tags: ["数据库", "C++", "15-445"]
theme: 'light'
featured: false
---
# Buffer pool
  The buffer pool is responsible for moving physical pages back and forth from main memory to disk.
  The buffer pool's operations are transparent to other parts in the system. The system asks the buffer pool for a page using its unique identifier (`page_id_t`) and it does not know whether that page is already in memory or whether the system has to go retrieve it from disk.
  
  The maximum size for the `LRUKReplacer` is the same as the size of the buffer pool since it contains placeholders for all of the frames in the `BufferPoolManager`
  `BufferPoolManagerInstance` is responsible for fetching database pages from the `DiskManager` and storing them in memory.
  
# Pages
  All in-memory pages in the system are represented by `Page` objects. The `BufferPoolManagerInstance` does not need to understand the contents of these pages. Each `Page` object contains a block of memory that the `DiskManager` will use as a location to copy the contents of a physical page that it reads from disk. The `BufferPoolManagerInstance` will reuse the same `Page` object to store data as it moves back and forth to disk. This means that the same `Page` object may contain a different physical page throughout the life of the system. The Page object's identifier (`page_id`) keeps track of what physical page it contains; if a `Page` object does not contain a physical page, then its `page_id` must be set to `INVALID_PAGE_ID`.

  Each `Page` object also maintains a counter for the number of threads that have "pinned" that page. 

  Use `ExtendibleHashTable` for the table that maps `page_id` to `frame_id`

  It will also use the `LRUKReplacer` to keep track of when `Page` objects are accessed so that it can decide which one to evict when it must free a frame to make room for copying a new physical page from disk.
```cpp
// 一个page包含了真正的data page，和一些metadata
auto big_page = reinterpret_cast<Page *>(page);
auto leaf_page = reinterpret_cast<LeafPage *>(big_page->GetData());
```

To implement BPLUSTREE_TYPE::Insert(), need StartNewTree() and InsertIntoLeaf()

To implement StartNewTree(), need leaf page Insert() // use binary search inside

To implement InsertIntoLeaf(), need BPLUSTREE_TYPE::FindLeafPage()
Also need Split() and InsertIntoParent()

To implement Split(), need MoveHalfTo() // both leaf_page and internal_page

To implement InsertIntoParent(), need PopulateNewRoot() and InsertNodeAfter()

To implement BPLUSTREE_TYPE::Remove(), need RemoveAndDeleteRecord() and CoalesceOrRedistribute()

To implement CoalesceOrRedistribute(), need AdjustRoot() and FindSibling()，
                                        Coalesce() , Redistribute()

 Coalesce() need MoveAllTo() and Remove()    
 
 

# Problems: 
### usage of UpdateRootPageId()

### 二分的边界！
### search的时候即使找不到也要记得Unpin, FindLeafPage() 和 Split() 产生的page 要记得对应 Unpin
### Iterator 里是否需要Unpin？ 应该不需要。而且operator++里有unpin
### b+ tree的min_size!
### Iterator 的 End() 有问题导致 for 循环不能停止。前几个EXPECT_EQ可以通过，后面的就不对了。
